---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "The difficult things will always be difficult"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-08-31
published: true
labels:
  - Self Development
---
Being born during the turn of the millennium, I grew up during the rise of the internet in popular culture. The ability to communicate with others from around the globe instantaneously enraptured my young mind. Initially, I used the internet to play video games with my friends much like many boys my age at the time. As I got older, I began to grow curious about how these things I enjoyed actually worked. I was aware that programmers were responsible for making these applications but, I had no real idea about what programming actually entails. My understanding of programming only came from the media. It wasn’t until one of my classmates, Henry, introduced me to the website CodeAcademy, that my passion for coding really started. We would spend our break periods competing with each other on who could complete the most challenges on the website the fastest. 
In 2018, I graduated high school. Initially, I wanted to take up Computer Science as my major; however, I felt pressured to take up engineering as everyone in my family was an engineer. Like the dumb kid I was, I ended up picking up mechanical engineering for seemingly no particular reason other than it was a field of engineering. I ended up not really taking my classes seriously and my grades started to slip and started abusing substances. I stopped attending classes and spent most of my time playing video games. I spiraled into a deep depression. It wasn’t after discussion with my parents that I decided to switch majors two years into my studies. 
When I first took ICS 111, it was initially a struggle session. If I had to describe the feeling, it would be being the first fish to attempt walking on land. It was laborious. After a few weeks, I started getting the hang of Java and I started having fun doing the assignments. It was like playing a game to me. You know that feeling of joy and excitement when you finally beat that boss that’s been giving you a hard time? Watching your program do what you designed it to do gives me the same level of satisfaction. That satisfaction is better than any substance and any video game brought me. Currently, I am learning how to program in C in ICS212 and Javascript in ICS314, and learning more about algorithms in ICS311.
Although there’s been a resurgence in my will to achieve my goals, the road ahead is covered in pitfalls and traps. It’s hard to not be discouraged by these obstacles but, it is important to remain steadfast. With determination and willpower combined with the support of those around me I can make out of this rough pack in my life. I can see it. The light at the end of this dark road. 

